revised design doc (#1)
jimzhe842/GoTeleportWorkerLibrary: DesignDoc.md

## **Worker Library**
----

> Firstly, the number of workers will be hardcoded but this could be moved into a configuration file in the future. Limiting the number of workers will control CPU usage, in case the server is needed for any other tasks. The worker library will include a variable storing a map of user authorization names to maps of  pointers to `job` instances. The map data structure allows for easy random access with authorization implemented.

Reviewer: > Limiting the number of workers will control CPU usage

Limiting the workers won't give us any guarantees about CPU usage. A single job could still consume all your resources. Limiting CPU/memory/disk/etc is out of scope for the L2 challenge.

Given what I said above, what are we gaining by constraining the number of workers?

The worker library will export three methods: `Start`, `Stop`, and `Query`.

The `Start` method takes in a `filepath` representing the path to the job bin file, and a variable number of arguments. (I'm assuming that the jobs sit on separate files on the same server.) Furthermore, this method will instantiate a new `job` instance pointer and assign it to a worker through a `jobs` channel. The job ids will be a randomly generated 8 byte alphanumeric string.
This `job` instance will have the following signature:

```go
type job struct {
  id string // id of length 8 to perform actions on jobs
  user string // represents the common name from the client certificate for authorization
  command string // command to run the job with args
  status Status // status of the job intialized to "starting" ("starting", "running", "stopped", or "finished")
  ctx context.Context // context for the exec.CommandContext

>   cancel context.CancelFunc // cancel func to stop a job

Reviewer 2: could `output` below be more specific than `interface{}`?

The `Stop` method takes in a `job` id, references the `job` pointer and call its cancel function to stop the job. A stopped job will not have an output and its status will be set to `stopped`.
The `cancel` method will be initialized like this:
```go
ctx, cancel := context.withCancel(context.Background())
exec.CommandContext(ctx, "cat", "file.txt")
job.cancel = cancel
job.ctx = ctx
```

Therefore, calling cancel should stop the process that was started by the `CommandContext` function.

A job that has completed will have the `output` field set to the job result and with a status of `finished`.

The `Query` method also takes in a job id and will return the relevant job info back to the caller.

Overall, this library was not designed to have workers finish in the order in which they are scheduled. As soon as they finish they will write the results to the `job` instance.

## **API**
----
The HTTP API will run on mTLS with the common name field used for authorization <!--and JWT authorization-->. 
<!-- In particular, TLS 1.3 will be used to set up a secure communication channel. It is not only more secure but also has a shorter handshake than previous versions.  -->

> In particular, TLS 1.3 defaults will be used to set up a secure communication channel. The cipher suites to be used are: TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 because they are supported by Golang.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In particular, TLS 1.3 (with the default cipher suites for Go) will be used to set up a secure communication channel.
```

You can't pick the cipher suites for TLS 1.3 in Go. Just remove that sentence and we are good.

This is an interesting read if you want to learn more about Go's stance on the subject: https://go.dev/blog/tls-cipher-suites.

    "output": "1",
  },
  {
    "id": 2,
    "status": "Stopped",
    "output": null,
  },
  {
    "id": 3,
    "status": "Running",
    "output": null,
  }
]
```

**GET** `/query/:id`
<!-- - client also needs to send an authorization header -->
- returns a status 200 with the job of the id sent, including their relevant info like id, status, and output
- returns a status 404 if the job id does not exist
- returns a status 403 if the client is unauthorized
```json
// request (no json needed)

//response (success)
{
  "id": 1,
  "status": "Completed",
  "output": "1",
}
```

## **CLI**
----
The client CLI will store their pregenerated certificate in memory for the mTLS handshake.

### **CLI Commands**

Let's call the CLI command `rw` for remote worker.

### **Connecting**

```
$ rw connect [server addr]
```

eg:
```
$ rw connect localhost:3000
```

Sets up the mTLS handshake and creates a persistent TCP connection with the remote server, where the server response has an HTTP header `Connection: Keep-Alive`. This will create a process that listens for user input, thus allowing reuse of the TCP connection, until the process gets "Control-C" by the user, or is exited out.

> Thus the below commands are for this process session, which blocks on user input.

Reviewer: So `rw connect` starts an interactive session where you can use the other commands?

It is an interesting idea, but you are making the challenge harder on yourself. I suggest you drop `rw connect` from the design to reduce the scope.

> 

Reviewer 3: What are the tradeoffs between having a queue with a finite number of active jobs, as opposed to having an unbounded number of jobs without a queue?

The worker library will export three methods: `Start`, `Stop`, and `Query`.

The `Start` method takes in a `filepath` representing the path to the job bin file, and a variable number of arguments. (I'm assuming that the jobs sit on separate files on the same server.) Furthermore, this method will instantiate a new `job` instance pointer and assign it to a worker through a `jobs` channel. The job ids will correspond to the `job` index in the global slice variable. That also means that jobs cannot be removed or inserted, otherwise the index will shift.
This `job` instance will have the following signature:

> ```go

Reviewer 3: How will you be generating Job IDs, and are there any security implications to that choice?

Reviewer: (Moving comments from initial commit to here)

> jimzhe842
> For generating job ids, I was thinking of just using the index in the global slice variable so the id will lead you to the specific Job instance. That also means that jobs cannot be removed or inserted, otherwise the index will shift.

> codingllama
> This sounds simple at first, but as you said it puts various requirements in the underlying slice. I would suggest simply generating unrelated IDs (incrementing numbers, randoms, UUIDs, whatever you prefer) - this way we don't have this relationship between IDs and indexes to worry about.

## **API**
----

> The HTTP API will run on mTLS and JWT authorization. In particular, TLS 1.3 will be used to set up a secure communication channel. It is not only more secure but also has a shorter handshake than previous versions. The cipher suites to be used are: TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256.

Reviewer 4: How are you planning on using JWT? I don't think JWT is necessary.

Reviewer: +1

> The HTTP API will run on mTLS and JWT authorization. In particular, TLS 1.3 will be used to set up a secure communication channel. It is not only more secure but also has a shorter handshake than previous versions. The cipher suites to be used are: TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256.

Reviewer: > TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256

Right, this sounds better, but if you are using Go I don't think you'll be able to pick TLS 1.3 cipher suites. See [crypto/tls/common.go:649](https://cs.opensource.google/go/go/+/master:src/crypto/tls/common.go;l=649?q=tls.Config&ss=go%2Fgo) and [crypto/tls/cipher_suites.go:676](https://cs.opensource.google/go/go/+/master:src/crypto/tls/cipher_suites.go;l=676?q=TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384&ss=go%2Fgo).

> Two self-signed Root CAs will be used as the basis of verification, one each for the client and server certificates. For convenience, openSSL will be used to generate the keys, CSRs and certificates. In the future, there could be a system in place for the server to generate certificates for the client. Localhost will be used for the common name field of the CSR. In the future, since CSR/certification generation will be handled in the codebase, this will be set to the configured server domain name.

Reviewer: > Localhost will be used for the common name field of the CSR

What about client certificates?

> Data from the client certificate will be used for authentication and authorization for simplicity.

Reviewer 3: Do you have any thoughts on how you will encode the relevant data?

> The API consists of the following endpoints:

Reviewer 4: Can you share the request/response JSON objects for all of these endpoints?

**POST** `/start`

> - client sends a json body that has the job `filePath`, and also the arguments to schedule a new job

Reviewer 3: It might be helpful to have some example request & response bodies for each end point.

- client also needs to send an authorization header
- returns a status 200 if the filePath leads to a bin file and the arguments are valid, also returns the job id
- returns a status 404 if the filePath does not exist
- returns a status 422 if the arguments are not valid
- returns a status 403 if the client is unauthorized

**POST** `/stop`
- client sends a json body of the job id to stop a job and an authorization header
- returns a status 200 if the id exists

>   - if the job was already completed, return the status and output

Reviewer 3: Is it possible to get the output of a job while its in progress? This might be a useful addition.

Author: Currently, I have designed it so that the output is only retrieved when a job is completed. Are you referring to cron job outputs here?

Reviewer 2: nothing to do with cron, but it would be nice to get the current output before the job has finished

Author: So, for example, if you're trying to cat a large file, do you want part of the file to be shown in output before the entire thing file is fully displayed?

Reviewer 3: Whenever I query a job's output, the service should return whatever output the job has emitted up to that point. It's easy to imagine a system where the decision to kill a job would be based on something in that job's output.

>   - if the job was already stopped previously or successfully stopped, return the output

Reviewer 3: How will you be encoding the output?

- returns a status 404 if the id does not exist
- returns a status 403 if the client is unauthorized

**GET** `/query`
- client also needs to send an authorization header

> - returns a status 200 with a list of all scheduled jobs, including their relevant info like id, status, and output

Reviewer 3: Will it be possible to query an individual job?

- returns a status 403 if the client is unauthorized

## **CLI**
----
The client CLI will store their pregenerated certificate in memory for the mTLS handshake.

The client CLI will store the pregenerated JWT as mentioned and send it in the `authorization` header of every request. The JWT payload will consist of the property `user`, which the server can check. The JWT will be sent through the `authorization` header of each HTTP request using the Bearer schema. However, in the future, the client will be required to send the login info.

### **CLI Commands**

Let's call the CLI command `rw` for remote worker.

### **Connecting**

```
$ rw connect [server addr]
```

eg:
```
$ rw connect localhost:3000
```

> Sets up the mTLS handshake and creates a persistent TCP connection with the remote server

Reviewer 3: How will you persist the connection between invocations of `rw`?

### **Starting a job**

```
$ rw start [path to bin] [args]
```

eg:
```
$ rw start add.exe 8 10
```

> For simplicity the args will get converted to integers

Reviewer 3: Integers for all commands? So I can't say something like 

```
$ rw start cat thefile.txt
```

The worker will execute the command with the `exec.CommandContext` function to create a stoppable process. At this point the job has a status of `running`. After, a `job` instance is processed by a worker, the worker will lock the `job` set the `status` and `output` to the appropriate values.

> The `Stop` method takes in a `job` id, references the `job` pointer and call its cancel function to stop the job. A stopped job will not have an output and its status will be set to `stopped`.

Reviewer: > A stopped job will not have an output

Why not?

The `cancel` method will be initialized like this:
```go
ctx, cancel := context.withCancel(context.Background())
exec.CommandContext(ctx, "cat", "file.txt")
job.cancel = cancel
job.ctx = ctx
```

Therefore, calling cancel should stop the process that was started by the `CommandContext` function.

> A job that has completed will have an `output` value and with a status of `finished`.

Reviewer 2: is this right? Seems like you meant to use the `status` field

## **API**
----

> The HTTP API will run on mTLS and username/password authorization where the server stores the credentials in memory <!--and JWT authorization-->. 

Reviewer 2: Can you explain how you plan to use mTLS with username/passwords?

<!-- In particular, TLS 1.3 will be used to set up a secure communication channel. It is not only more secure but also has a shorter handshake than previous versions.  -->

> In particular, TLS 1.2 will be used to set up a secure communication channel. The cipher suites to be used are: TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256.

Reviewer 2: Why not 1.3? Assuming I'm reading this right

Two self-signed Root CAs will be used as the basis of verification, one each for the client and server certificates. For convenience, openSSL will be used to generate the keys, CSRs and certificates. In the future, there could be a system in place for the server to generate certificates for the client. Localhost will be used for the common name field of the CSR. Meanwhile a generic name like "client-1" will be used for the client CSR common name. In the future, since CSR/certification generation will be handled in the codebase, this will be set to the configured server domain name.

The API consists of the following endpoints:

**POST** `/start`
- client sends a json body that has the job `filePath`, and also the arguments to schedule a new job
<!-- - client also needs to send an authorization header -->
- returns a status 200 if the filePath leads to a bin file and the arguments are valid, also returns the job id
- returns a status 404 if the filePath does not exist
- returns a status 422 if the arguments are not valid
- returns a status 403 if the client is unauthorized

eg:
```json
// request
{

>   "command": "cat file.txt",

Reviewer: If you pass the command and arguments in a single string, then the backend parsing can get complicated once we have arguments with spaces in them.

Eg: `cat 'a long file name with spaces.txt'`

or

`mycommand arg1 arg2 'argument 3 '`

$ rw connect localhost:3000
```

> Sets up the mTLS handshake and creates a persistent TCP connection with the remote server, where the server response has an HTTP header `Connection: Keep-Alive`

Reviewer 3: Sorry, but I still don't understand how you are going to persist a TCP connection to the server between two invocations of `rw`.

I'm assuming that these will be two separate processes, is that correct? How will you make the TCP connection survive the death of the first `rw connect` and still be around for `rw start`?
